Q 2.1
Three optimization changes :
As I have only 30 minutes to make adjustments, I would do :
1- Improve SQL Logic :
The original data retrieves all the fact table data and aggregates it; we can improve it by specifying a date range. e.g. past week

SELECT company_id, date, SUM(events) AS events
FROM fact_events
WHERE date >= DATEADD(day, -7, CAST(GETDATE() AS date))
GROUP BY company_id, date;

2- Add proper indexes on the fact table on (company_id, date), as its impact on the performance for retrieving data makes it much faster.
3- Partition the Table by date. Partitioning is a huge boost for performance as it can retrieve the data based on the date more quickly.
   It might take more than 30 min based on the data to be implemented, but it's a quick solution to do at this time for later.


Q2.2 
risks or flaws in the Query 
1- Ambiguous date column as it does not show which date this column relates to, the event date, or the company date ?? so nothing specific 
   It should be replaced with proper naming, like event_date in the database or at least use an alias.
2- There is no filtering or validation on the query, so we can add filtering to get the data after a specific date and validate it 
   WHERE event_date >= '2026-01-01' AND events >= 0

Q2.3
One real pipeline performance issue I have faced:
After a while of implementing our ETL solution for a DWH, I have found that some records on the source data that have been deleted are still showing in the DWH as a record not flagged as deleted 
I noticed immediately that the problem with the deleting method for reading deleted records was that I had designed it to catch hard deleted records, but the case was that it was soft deleted at the source, "Flagged."
Before anything, I have got a backup of the latest version of this DWH to make sure any modification will not harm the DWH until validating it.
I have modified the solution, then I re-executed the package, and it worked perfectly. "The data was not that big and was in a local server, so this solution got it."

Q2.4 
What’s changing:
  - Only pulling recent dates from fact_events, so it runs faster.
  - Adding indexes on company_id and date.
  - Planning date-based partitioning later for even faster queries.
Heads up:
  - Old data won’t show based on the query adjustment.
Watch out for:
- Totals might look a bit lower than the full dataset for now.
